in this lesson we're going to look at
the functionality of microsoft defender
for cloud previously known as azure
security center
if we look at the various objectives for
az 900 what we're diving into now is
we're starting this new section around
describe general security and network
security features
and now we're diving into these describe
azure security features where we're
going to look at a number of key
components like what was called the
azure security center and i'm sure
they'll update this to microsoft
defender for cloud at some point
and then looking at azure keyboard azure
sentinel and azure dedicated hosts
before moving on to describing azure
network security
so we want to look at
what formerly was known as was azure
security center
now this has been rebranded with a whole
bunch of other things to microsoft
defender for the cloud
and as the name suggests it becomes this
security hub not just for azure
but also potentially for things you have
in other clouds and even on premises
what it's going to do is firstly
it integrates with azure policy
it has this azure security benchmark
that looks at a whole broad range of
different aspects of the resources you
have in azure
and looks at the security of them
and through that it lets you get various
recommendations this is probably easier
to understand if we look at this so if
we jump over to our portal
what we can do is scroll down now you'll
notice it's saying now
microsoft defender for cloud but this is
the same as azure security center
so if we go and look at this
what we can now do
is from here
it's broken up into a number of
different sections now first and
foremost it's going to show me an
overview
it's showing me the various azure
subscriptions it's looking at and i can
filter those if i do restrict it to just
certain subscriptions
it's showing me the number of active
recommendations showing me security
alerts
it starts off with this idea of a secure
score now this is an assessment of your
overall security posture
based on all the different items in
specs and what is this useful is yes i
can get a broad understanding of well
what is the security posture of my
subscriptions
but it has this ability to improve your
secure score so it's then going to dive
into well looking at each of the
subscriptions
and then i can actually break that down
to a particular subscription
and then look at the recommendations
they have now the recommendations have
different amounts of points available
based on their criticality for example
enabling mfa well that's a huge one so
that has a potential score in this case
as we can see
of 10 and company has given me zero so
if i went and enabled that then
it will improve my score
securing certain management ports
applying certain system updates certain
agents
remediate certain vulnerabilities
and some of these it will actually give
you the option for example there'll be
like a quick fix option
so we'll actually let me go through and
help me fix that item
and potentially it's giving me a
recommendation that doesn't apply to my
environment maybe i'm using some other
technology to remediate that risk in
which case i can say hey
i just want you to make this exempt i
don't want you to kind of flag this or
consider this anymore
so first and foremost azure security
center is giving me a whole set of
recommendations
so we can see hey there's other things
it hooks into inventory
but this recommendation is what drives
the secure score
and also i can just see a list of all
recommendations in my environment and
it's going through all those different
services
and giving me things i should look at
it's showing me what is my compliance
status all red means well nothing is
meeting this
some of them i have a certain portion so
some of them are meeting it some of them
are not
and some of them i'm green on hey yes
i'm meeting this particular
requirement there's also an idea of
regulatory compliance so if i go down to
regulatory compliance down in this cloud
security
by default it's just comparing me
against this azure security benchmark so
that consists of a number of controls
that i can see here
i can go into details and see what each
of those are really looking at
but there are others there are other
compliance policies i can add if i add
the enhanced
defender capabilities so if i look at
managed compliance policies
and for right now i'll just do it at the
management group level
we can see there are a whole bunch of
other types of regulatory compliance
dashboards available and i can add more
so all of these are built in all of
these i can add which looks at the
aspects of security related to this
particular
compliance standard
but the important thing is to use those
yes azure security benchmark is
available to everyone but if i want to
be able to use some of the other ones i
actually have to enhance my level of
environment if i go to environmental
settings
and here i could look at a particular
subscription so let's expand this out
and look at lab for example
right now i have enhanced security off
so yes i get these basic azure security
benchmark yes i get that secure score
but now it's all of these crosses
if i switch to enable all microsoft
defender for cloud plans i am turning on
enhanced security
then we get things like just in time vm
access
we're going to talk about network
security groups
and what just in time vm access is doing
is if i think about hey i have for
example my
virtual machine
well that exists in a network
and what that just in time does is when
i want to connect to it using rdp or ssh
only at that point i want to connect
it will actually modify
the network security group that's kind
of offering protection around that
device
to only allow
and i have some configuration around
this my public facing ip
to be allowed in to that resource but no
one else can
and it's only for a certain duration for
example i could say here do this for two
hours
then after that two hour window it will
remove that access again
so that's given me that capability
we also see there's things like adaptive
application controls and network
hardening
so this is looking at what are the
commonly used applications in an
environment enhancing that machine
learning and stopping me running other
software which could be malicious
you get that hey additional regulatory
compliance dashboards there's threat
protection
including server edr so that's an
enhanced detection remediation set of
capabilities
for attacks against my operating systems
and also threat protection for supported
pass services and we can see there's a
whole bunch of specific defender
technologies
four different types of azure service
and each of those offers different
functionality
but they're tailored to give me
protection it uses machine learning
to give them the best of breed
protection it understands the types of
attacks that may occur it understands
how to identify them how to alert that
up to me and help me protect so i can
turn these on if i want that enhanced
protection but by default
i just have this free offering that does
give me that secure score it does give
me recommendations against that azure
security bench line
it also does have security alerts so if
there are things happening
from some of those various plans things
i have configured it will give me alerts
and just like anything else i can
actually
generate
um automated responses to those so i
could call just like azure monitor i can
go and trigger some action group to be
called as part of that
so i can integrate with other solutions
as well so we see there's security
solutions to really bolster up the set
of capabilities and this does include
some of the azure native ones as well
so there are many sets of capabilities
around security center
but really first and foremost what its
focus is about
is
giving me a good idea of the security
posture of my azure resources
and then if i turn on those enhanced
security offerings giving me even better
security protection for different types
of resource giving me the ability to use
different types of regulatory compliance
and adding those enhanced features like
just in time access adaptive controls
things that i might want for the real
best of breed protection for my
resources and of course i'm talking
about azure once i start using those
enhanced services i can extend it to
things in other clouds like aws for
example
and also resources running on premises